My most controversial opinion is that I
think that AI is as big a deal as the
internet or mobile and only as big a
deal as the internet or mobile. What's
your just the coming job apocalypse?
Every time we have a new technology, it
automates away a bunch of jobs and then
that automation unlocks a bunch of new
[music] jobs and you don't know the new
job cuz it doesn't exist yet. We've had
that process over and over again.
>> Even just looking at the most advanced
AI companies throughout big open AI,
everyone's increasing headcount. You
talk to these doomers on Twitter and
they would act like every big company is
going to buy Chat GBT tomorrow and then
in two weeks time they'll fire all their
stuff. These people are morons. You
can't predict which things are going to
be exposed. You can't look at a senior
partner at a law firm and say, "Well,
17% of their work could be automated.
This is horshit."
>> I'm curious if you're following the
anti- AI sentiment.
>> It's a big fuzzy mess. Yes, this will
change a bunch of stuff and we'll need
to worry about it, but [music] that's
kind of a constant. We've always had
that. What would be a couple things you
recommend people do to be more
successful in this future? Don't stick
your head in the sand and say, "I hate
all of this stuff." That gives you a
great feeling of moral superiority and
you can go on Blue Sky and shout at
everybody about how evil AI is. Like
great, I'm happy for you. But that's not
going to help. What helps is you diving
into this and coming out understanding
what you can do with
today. My guest is Benedict Evans.
Benedict was a longtime partner at A16Z
as their in-house analyst [music] and
resident thinker. Before that, he was a
longtime equity researcher. And for the
past six years, he's been an independent
[music] analyst tracking the most
important tech trends and sharing what
he's learning. Most recently, as you'd
expect, he's spending all his time on
how AI is changing [music] our lives.
And in his words, AI is eating the
world. In this conversation, we go deep
on what we're still not pricing in
[music] on the impact that AI is going
to have on our lives and our work, the
rise of anti-AI sentiment, [music] the
impact on jobs, where in the value chain
most of the value will acrue, and
[music] tons more. If you are worried
about AI or just confused about where
things are heading, this conversation
will teach you a lot and also make you
feel better. Before we get into it,
don't forget to check out
lenny'spass.com
for a year free of some of the most
amazing, hottest, most well-crafted AI
products in the world, available
exclusively to Lenny's newsletter
subscribers. With that, I bring you
Benedict Evans.
Benedict, thank you so much for being
here. Welcome to the podcast.
>> Thank you for inviting me.
>> You just put out this deck called AI is
eating the world. I want to ask you kind
of the the flip side of this of we all
know it's a big deal like knowing that
what do you think people are still not
fully pricing in when they think about
the change that they're going to
experience to their lives and their
work? Um, an interesting way of thinking
about it, I did a um, a podcast last
year with someone where I said, you
know, I my most controversial opinion is
that I think that AI is as big a deal as
the internet or mobile and only as big a
deal as the internet or mobile because
clearly there's a bunch of people in
tech who think no, this is more like the
industrial revolution or something. And
there are a whole bunch of people
underneath saying, well, he thinks this
is just as big as does he not understand
how big this is? And I'm like,
smartphones were quite a big deal. The
internet was quite a big deal. We
wouldn't be doing this if it wasn't for
the internet. So there's like one layer
of but then if you dig into that like
if you're going to make the internet
comparison it's like we're in 1997. Like
it's very exciting.
Most stuff kind of doesn't work yet.
Most of the stuff that people are going
to do hasn't been built yet and it's not
really clear how any of it's going to
work when it does work. And the people
who have have already got it who have
already taken whichever pill it is I
forget which sort of imagine that
everybody in the world is already there
and the truth is you've got this kind of
very wide distribution. So there's
people in tech who bought their cluster
of Mac minis and you know don't use
Google anymore. And then you look
outside tech and setting aside the
idiots who think that this isn't real.
Um you know most people are using who
are using this are using this every week
or two maybe. Um so you've got that kind
of spread of adoption and that spread of
maturity of how well this works. And
then within that you can make sort of
specific points about well how are the
models going to work and do the model
labs have pricing power and where's the
value going to be and you know has open
AAI won the whole thing or you know is
anthropic got it this week and so then
you can kind of get into calling those
races where again it's like being in
1997 and saying well is it going to be
excite or yahoo
and the answer was no generally so
there's a sort of a fractual point here
there's like the sort a super high level
that like this is going to change
absolutely everything. I don't think
it's particularly productive to say well
is it 20% bigger than the internet or
100% those aren't productive
conversations but it's one of those
fundamental changes but then you don't
know how any of it is going to work. Um
in fact I just published this I do a
presentation every six months and I just
published one yesterday and one of the
comments was Benedict this is 80 slides
are saying we don't know which is like
slightly facitious but also kind of
true. This episode is brought to you by
our season's presenting sponsor, WorkOS.
What do OpenAI, Anthropic, Cursor,
Versell, Replet, Sierra, Clay, and
hundreds of other winning companies all
have in common? They are all powered by
work OS. If you're building a product
for the enterprise, you've felt the pain
of integrating single signon, skim,
arback, audit, logs, and other features
required by large companies. work OS
turns those deal blockers into drop-in
APIs with a modern developer platform
built specifically for B2B SAS.
Literally every startup that I'm an
investor in that starts to expand up
market ends up working with Work OS. And
that's because they are the best.
Whether you are a seedstage startup
trying to land your first enterprise
customer or a unicorn expanding
globally, work OS is the fastest path to
becoming enterprise ready and unblocking
growth. It's essentially Stripe for
enterprise features. Visit works.com to
get started or just hit up their Slack
where they have actual engineers waiting
to answer your questions. Workos allows
you to build faster with delightful
APIs, comprehensive docs, and a smooth
developer experience. Go to works.com to
make your app enterprise ready today.
So, if we're in this 1997 timeline uh
for AI, I know it's I know so much of
your messages we don't know where it's
going exactly yet. I don't know. Now, do
you have a sense of just like the
timeline to okay, now things are going
to be radically changing? Like where are
we in that cycle? You talk about all
these different cycles we've been
through. Like how far far are we from
just like wow it's all different now?
>> Well, unquestionably we're already in
that moment in software. And then
there's a conversation about well what
does agentic and AI software development
two separate things that merge together
mean for the future of software
industry? You know, there's one extreme
which is no one really believes which
is, you know, hey, you'll just like v
code your own stripe and no one actually
believes that although you don't believe
that, but like clearly there's a whole
bunch of questions about what this means
for the software industry and how much
stuff you'll be able to do yourself or
how much more software there will be and
that's, you know, whole that's one whole
conversation. But the other extreme is,
you know, if you're in a law firm, this
is all very interesting.
Um, but what am I how how exactly do we
use this? And how do we work out how not
to be the next story that we've
submitted something with hallucinations
in it? And how many associates are we
going to hire next year? Uh, what does
this mean for us? One of the analogies I
used in the presentation is imagine
you're seeing imagine you're an
accountant seeing the first software
spreadsheets in the late '7s. This is
mind-blowing. you know, you change the
interest rate here and all the other
numbers change and it does a week of
work for you in like 30 seconds. And we
can talk about what that meant for the
accounting industry, but clearly if
you're an accountant, this is obviously
mind-blowing. But if you were a lawyer
looking at that or a journalist looking
at that, you'd think, well, that's very
clever and my accountant should see
this, but that's not what I do. I might
use it for my time sheet next week if it
didn't cost 10 or $15,000 to get the
Apple 2 and the monitor and the printer
to run it, which is what it cost if you
adjust, but that's not what I do. And
you need a word processor, which
actually came like very shortly
afterwards. And so that's sort of the
moment that we're in of there's some
people like software development are
develop software developers are the
accountants seeing visi like oh my god
this changes everything like before
viscal and after visalc before before cl
code and after claw code [snorts] a lot
of other people are picking it up using
it to varying degrees but slightly
puzzled so you there's a bunch of survey
data that I put in in the in the
presentation that like even if you look
at like 13 to 18 year olds or something,
it's still like kind of 15 20% of people
are daily active users and another 20%
are weekly active users and then the
other 60% of those people in that
demographic on you say they are not
using this. So there's a sort of very
widespread of who gets it and a very
wide which I think also maps this is
kind of almost a separate point maps to
the sort of jagged frontier question of
where does this work where does it not
work can you tell where it's going to
work is it intuitive to know where it
would work can you tell after it worked
can you can you can you can you work out
for yourself what you would do with this
and all of those intersect if you're a
software developer a lot of other people
were like people having moment or
they're not or we're in again we're in
that kind of 1997 moment of okay what is
this
>> along those lines something you've been
writing a bit about is this like
unexpected investment in professional
services consulting services/forward
deployed engineers uh all the AI labs at
least the two big ones open anthropic
are like investing in buying massive
comp like consultancies and PE firms
talk about just what's happening there
why why that's happening
>> well it's funny I was kind of groping
for a joke last night when I wrote my
newsletter and couldn't quite get to
land it but as you know something like
you know you know the joke that a
machine learning scientist is a
statistician who lives in San Francisco
and there's something in there of like a
forward deployed engineer is like an
Accenture outsourced software developer
who lives in San Francisco or works in
San Francisco. I mean, you know, joking
apart,
if you have any experience of
professional services, like companies do
not have lots of people sitting around
waiting to do a build a big new project
or do a big new piece of analysis or
build a big new piece of technology or a
new product or work out how they're
going to redesign their stores or, you
know, work out where the stores should
be or try and work out why the churn is
too high. Oh no. All of those kinds of
questions are things reasons why you
hire Bane BCG McKenzie on one side or
Accenture Infasis whoever on the other
or you hire a branding agency or you
hire an AR firm of architects or
whatever. And it's always like well we
could hire some architects but why on
earth would we want to have 15
architects on staff when we we just go
and hire an architecture firm? We just
go and hire an ad agency. [snorts] And
so you're supposed to like completely
reimagine all of the internal workflows
of your company and work out which of
them could be automated really quickly
with AI. That's a project. That's a
project that needs like five or 10
people to sit down and spend a month or
two working it out. And then actually
doing it is another project. Okay. So we
need to plug these three vertical
systems into these two horizontal
systems and build in a bunch of new
workflows and train people to do that.
Well, guess what? Who's going to do
that? Because you don't have a bunch of
people sitting around not doing
anything. So, on the one side, this is
part of the the model of some PE firms,
which is that they provide support to
their portfolio companies to do stuff.
And on the other side, that's why you
hire, depending on what you're trying to
do, you hire Bane or you hire Accenture
or you hire publicists to help you work
that out. What's really just funny about
this trend is you would think AI is
going like consultants were going to be
gone. No, we don't need all these people
anymore. AI is going to do their work.
Instead, like the most cutting edge AI
labs are the ones most investing in
these folks. It's I think it's pretty
surprising.
>> Well, one of the strands in my
presentation, so I split the
presentation into three sections.
There's a section on capital, which is
basically where is all this capex going
and are the model labs going to have
differentiation? And then there's a
section on deployment, which is
basically what does it mean for the
software industry? And then the third
section is how does this change stuff?
And one of the sort of sort of strands I
tried to pull together in the section on
change is
um what's the hard part of the job? Is
the hard part of the job writing the
code line by line? Is the hard part of
the job like giving you the school or
making the PowerPoint
or is the hard part of the job something
else? Is it the task or the job? And you
know, pulling that apart, sometimes the
task is the job. Like the classic
example is like a an elevator attendant.
I live in a building that has an
attended elevator. We have a manual
elevator. There's no button. There's a
there's a there's a lever in the door
and drives you to your floor. It's a
vertical speed car. Um it's like one of
those trams in San Francisco. They drive
you to the store to your floor. Um and
then those all got automated after the
50s and now you get and you press a
button and pressing the button is a job.
So there were some things where the the
the button the job was a task and the
task got automated. What happens much
more and this is why people talked about
like the jeans paradox is this pricey
elasticity because jeans paradox is just
pricey elasticity applied price
elasticity. If you make it cheaper to do
something what happens do you do the
same for less money or do you do more
for the same amount of money or do you
do more for more money because you've
got new ROI.
And if you look at something like the
history of accounting or indeed
professional services like you know this
is a joke I made on Twitter back when it
was Twitter was like young people won't
believe this but before invest before
Excel junior investment bankers worked
really long hours and now thanks to
Excel Goldman's associates all work at
lunchtime on Fridays. It's like well why
is that not what happened? You could
make the same point in software
development. You know before IDED and
libraries and operating systems
developers had to write all the code.
Now, if you write an iPhone app, 90% of
the code is written for you by Apple.
Like, Apple wrote the modem driver and
the graphics drivers and, you know, the
file system. You don't need to write any
of that. So, we've got like a tenth as
many engineers now. Well, no. And so,
then you kind of have to look at an
industry and work out, well, which is
it? And what is the hard part? One of
the the analogies that occurred to me
here is to look at the history of
e-commerce, which is that what Amazon
does is it gets you the skew. If you
know what the skew is, if you know what
skew you want, you want that microphone
stand. You know this part number, you
can go to Amazon and get it. If you
don't know what microphone to get,
probably shouldn't start on Amazon.
Multiply that by many, many, many
product categories. And so what Amazon
does is get you the skew, but knowing
what skew you want is another job. You
know, the claw code can write you the
code, but what code do you want? It can
make you the features, sure, but what
features do you want? Who's your
customer? What's the right product for
that customer? How you going to take it
to market? And long way of answering
your question, why do you hire McKenzie?
Are you hiring them to get a 75 slide
deck?
Well, narrowly Claude Co will make a
really, really crappy version of that.
And you'll get all these kind of AI
grifters on LinkedIn and and Twitter and
so on saying, "Hey, I made a McKenzie
deck with Claude." and you look at it
and you think, "Yeah, that's a bunch of
dog crap. That's not what you'd get if
you from McKenzie." But even if it was,
that's not what you paid them for. What
you actually pay Bane to do is to go and
walk all over your enterprise, your
company, and work out, yes, but why is
it that you didn't do that? And how do
the politics of this work? And what do
you actually need to do? And let's go
and talk to your customers and work out
what they actually think as opposed to
what's on the first page of Google. is
all the other stuff and the PowerPoint
is just like the task but that's not
what you hired them for. The same with
you know Amazon versus the retailer the
same with software development. So
you've got that kind of split. The other
analogy that occurred to me here was
looking at like the sort of class of
industry that got steamed by the
internet because they had those two
things and you could split the part. So
you had the physical manufacturing or
physical distribution and then you had
the other the the thing what was the
actual thing like classic examples will
be newspapers and recorded music. So
record companies do not think of
themselves as being in the business of
manufacturing small pieces of plastic
but that was that was what they actually
did and when that went away they were
screwed. Um same thing for newspapers.
Newspapers did not think of themselves
as like manufacturing and trucking
companies. When you decouple that then
that becomes a problem. But often you
kind of can't decouple that or that
wasn't really the problem or you make
that thing cheap and then all this other
stuff happens as well. And so all of
this is just vastly more complicated
than saying well hey you know we're just
going to automate the accountants or
we're going to automate the the
consultants. Um I mean there's there's
two charts in the presentation of the
number of people employed as accountants
which went up right the way through the
20th century and has gone up again since
the beginning of the 21st century. So
you have adding machines and punch cards
and mainframes and databases and ERP and
cloud with spreadsheets and PCs and the
number of accounts keeps going up. And
so why is that? Well, it's not it must
be more it's more complicated than
automation. Even just looking at the
most advanced AI companies, Anthropic,
OpenAI, I just had Dan Shipper from
every on the podcast. Everyone's just
increasing headcount. Like the companies
you would think would be least likely to
add humans are adding many, many humans.
And to your point, it's really
complicated. What's your just kind of
gist on the job, the coming job
apocalypse? You know, like Daria's
talking about all the entry level people
are no more jobs. Just like
>> Yeah. Um I mean there's a narrow point
here which is that I would place I don't
like argument from authority.
And I don't think the fact that you run
an AI lab suddenly gives you or rather
and if you're going to use argument from
authority then it should be relevant to
the field. So like [snorts] I'm
interested in Dario's opinions on where
models are going to go in the next 6 to
12 months. I'm not particularly
interested in opinions on theories of
labor and market value and competitive
comparative advantage like yeah maybe he
had a course on that at university. So
did I. So I think one needs to be a
little bit cautious on like well Dario
says and that's setting aside like the
cynical view that he you know he's just
doing that pump stock which I don't I
don't believe at all. So this kind of
comes back to my point about you know
platform shifts. um every time we have a
new technology um it automates away a
bunch of jobs and then that automation
whether it's price elasticity and the
enablement of the fact that they became
automated unlocks a bunch of new jobs
and so you know you go back to 1800 like
90% of us were peasants and our major
concern was would like the crops going
to fail because then we'll all go hungry
or worse and so ever since then we've
been automating jobs and creating new
jobs and you can always see the job
that's going to go going to go away and
you don't know the new job because it
doesn't exist yet and it's like
something that sounds dumb anyway like
you know like railway engineer what's a
railway um why would that be a thing who
would care who would want to go that
fast um and so we've had that process
over and over again this is what any
first year economics student would tell
you um we've had this process over and
over again since 1800 and each time you
go through it you get a bunch of
frictional pain and dislocation and a
bunch of people lose their jobs and a
bunch of towns get hollowed out and it's
all it all sucks but you know when you
come through on the other side we're all
richer and we're not worried about the
crops failing anymore and you know this
is the process of the last 200 years so
then the question is is there some a
prior reason why this would be different
to those because like the internet
removed a bunch of jobs PCs removed a
bunch of jobs there aren't many people
working as type setters anymore um or
telephone operators or typists um the
internet removed a bunch of jobs and
generally the jobs that go away are crap
jobs seen retrospectively and the new
jobs are better because you know GDP
keeps going up so is AI different
and so Then there's kind of a couple of
answers to this. One theory is well this
is going to be way quicker and certainly
the adoption of AI is quicker than
previous technologies because but this
is kind of because you're standing on
the shelves of giants. So like you don't
need to wait for everyone to buy a piece
of expensive hardware to like buy a
phone or a PC or wait for the telco to
deploy broadband. It's already there. So
of course chat GBT can get 900 million
chat users because there's already 900
million people on the internet. Like in
like when Mark Andre launched Netscape
in what was it 9394 there were like 50
to 100 million PCs on Earth. So no, you
didn't have 900 million users then. But
and so the but the point is then he
didn't need to wait for like phone
networks or microchips
and before that you didn't need to wait
for electricity and you didn't need to
wait for like mass production. So
there's all you're always kind of
standing on the shoulders of giants.
There's always like a compounding
effect. So yeah, this is faster but the
internet was faster too. Um I think the
other answer to this and this kind of
comes back to the professional services
point is like you know you talk to these
doomers on Twitter and they would like
act like you know every big company is
going to buy chat EBT tomorrow and then
in two weeks time they'll fire all their
stuff and these people are morons and
this is one of many reasons why why
doomers were morons but a complete
failure to understand the way the world
works and that was like the starting
point why they then didn't understand
anything else you know typical big
company you know enterprise software
sales cycle you'll know this better than
me enterprise software sales cycle is
like 18 months if you're lucky
You know this is always the problem. The
enterprise sales cycle is shorter than
the the venture back start software
funding cycle longer longer rather
longer like it takes you longer to get
an enterprise deal than it takes you to
go between wraps and this was always the
problem you know particularly for you
know sectors like aerospace or
healthcare or something. So like no
people aren't just going to tear out SAP
and replace it with XY Z. Maybe in five
in like three five 10 years yes that
whole estate will look radically
different and all those jobs will have
changed but it will take you know t
three four five 10 years and it will
take time sector by sector and it will
take time for people to work out
uh you could do that thing with this.
One of the companies I always remember
that we looked at when I was at Andre
and Horitz is a company called um
frame.io which is video editing, video
video collaboration. And there's nothing
there that you couldn't have done at
least 5 years earlier and maybe 10 years
earlier.
And [snorts] actually, that's kind of a
bad example because that relies on a
bunch of like a bunch of stuff like web
cutting edge web technologies. But if
you go out and like pick pick 10 random
SAS companies that were started the day
before Tatbt launched, how many of them
could have been founded at any point in
the previous 15 years?
like somebody to the the delay was
somebody realizing oh we could that
problem exists inside that industry and
oh this is the way that we would solve
it. It didn't all happen the day after
Google Docs. It took like 10 15 20 years
for people to invent all that stuff and
work out that you could do that with
this. So all of that is like the way of
saying well yes it is going to be quick
but actually no it will kind of take a
while for people to work out how to
completely change how their business
works. your view is so comforting
because
it's you know basically it's like okay
this is a huge deal but we've been
through many transformations before and
it's going to be okay. Well, I have a
slide towards the end of the
presentation which and I know the title
is something like, you know, this is
going to be completely different from
everything else just like everything
else. And then the next slide is an IBM
ad from the 50s which has got this sea
of white men holding up with in white
shirts and ties all holding up flight
rules.
And the the the ad it said the slogan on
the title of the ad is it's an IBM ad.
It says an IBM electronic calculator.
This is before it was called a computer.
It's an electronic calculator. It's the
size of a fridge is like having 150
extra engineers.
Like how many people listening to this
company list like their company's slogan
is basically we'll give you 150 extra
engineers. I mean isn't that like the
whole pitch of Claude called code? 150
extra engineers for free or not free.
That's like a lot of money. Um so and
yeah that's what it gave you and so yes
we keep going through this over and over
and over again just to kind of make that
tangible. I mean obviously we couldn't
be doing this with the without the
internet. So there's a slide in my
presentation which is we could maybe
talk about but it's a slide or chart
showing how many products are stocked in
supermarkets in America since the 50s.
And the point of the slide is to say
that barcodes allowed supermarkets to
stock way more stuff because they could
keep track of it.
But making that chart, I had to know
there was a thing called the Food
Marketing Institute. And I had to have
found out that they published a number
for how many SKUs there were in
supermarkets every year. And then I had
to realize they'd been around since the
50s. And if I like dug long enough, I
might be able to make a whole time
series and I could make whole chart. Now
imagine doing that in 1994.
First of all, you would have no idea
that exists. you really need to go and
find a library where they public where
they and they publish that number and
then the numbers in that report. You'd
have no idea. Then you need to find a
library that had them. So you're going
to spend like three days on the phone
and spend like $50 on like longistance
phone calls to find a library that has
these. Or maybe you call the Food
Marketing Institute and they say, "Yeah,
sure. If you buy a, you know, we'll sell
them to you for $500 each." So then you
know you're going to get on a maybe you
live in New York or like there's
somewhere that has this and you two
weeks later you've got the chart and you
look at it and then the other side of
this is the life of analyst is you spend
all day making a chart and you look at
it and go that's not very interesting.
So you spend two weeks to make the chart
and then you look at it and go yeah I'm
not going to use that
and for me this was like two hours in
Google
and so we like we we like forget how big
a deal the internet was. That's a long
way of saying it, but like we forget
we've had these absolutely enormous
changes and then we don't see it because
it's like that's the world the world has
always been. What's different
potentially this time just to even
though your code is it's different this
is everything's going to change like
just like just like last time like the
big difference obviously is uh AGI might
emerge and super intelligence where that
is uh could you know does the work of
humans can do a lot of this stuff for us
can actually replace jobs just like
thoughts on that element of this
transformation we're going through
>> I don't know this is one of the the ways
I've struggled to write about AI is like
certainly in like 2023 three early 24
like all the questions were questions
you could have asked in like December
like the questions didn't really change
and the strategies didn't really change
and I think the AGI question is kind of
the same um I mean the thing that the
the observation one can make like you
know we have no theory of what human
intelligence is we have no theory of why
these models work so well we have no
theory of how much better they will get
so we're all just kind of vibes
forecasting as to what will happen
[snorts] um and then you can have like
the 2 a.m. you know doped out philosophy
students talking about hey man like is
this consciousness maybe we aren't
conscious either we just think we are
like yeah great thank you I think the
one thing one can observe today is so we
have no idea we don't know we can guess
but we don't really know how the where
this is going to end up what I think you
can say today is that there's a lot of
kind of redefinition of terms so I think
a quote I used in my presentation late
last year was an AI scientist called
Larry Tesla who said AI is whatever
machines can't do yet because once
machines can do it. People say, "Well,
that's just software."
[snorts] And so certainly, I mean, I I
did do a poll on social media every now
and then asking, "Is machine learning
still AI?"
Because I've certainly heard people say,
"Oh, that's not AI. That's just image
recognition." That's not AI, that's just
sentiment analysis. So AI, it's a bit
like the word technology. It's like if
it's new, then it's technology. But in
the 60s, airlines, jet ainers were
technology. Now a jet ainer is in tech.
And so there's a sort of sense of AI is
like a moving target is whatever just
started working. And I think the point
here is now clearly you can see people
redefining AGI to mean the stuff that
works now. So is AEI what's the
definition now? It's like it can do a
certain percentage of economically
valuable work. Well, that's a very
different thing to it has a soul and
it's alive. [snorts] Um because
a database can do that. like you know an
IBM mainframe in 1975 could do a
meaningful percentage of economically
valuable work that was previously done
by people and it turned out there was a
whole bunch of other stuff that it
couldn't do that we didn't do then we
didn't know existed so there's a lot of
like kind of creative redefinition here
super intelligence I'm not sure is super
intelligence more than AGI or less than
AGI because last year I thought super
intelligence was like really good but
not as good not actual AGI and now it's
like oh no no we've already got AGI but
super intelligence that's really hard
it's like all these terms are like what
I what even it's funny I was I was
having an argument on hacking news this
morning. You remember the idea, you
remember the argu which is never never a
good use of time but you you remember
the argument of like you know people
would argue about whether crypto is
blockchain or whether blockchain is
crypto
there isn't a right answer to that let's
just be sure you know it's important to
understand what you mean when you say
that but there isn't like a correct
answer to this are we going to get to
something that has human level
intelligence
I we don't know I don't think we have
any way of answering that question maybe
maybe not you can make arguments either
way meantime it does mean in the
meanwhile we've [snorts] got this thing
that's clearly kind of a you know
completely transformative technology and
maybe the serious point here is you like
you don't have to believe even if like
the model stopped it getting better
tomorrow if this is it and we hit a
brick wall tomorrow this is an
incredibly useful technology that's
going to change the world and get rolled
out over the next 10 years so you don't
have to believe in any of that stuff to
believe that this is giant deal
>> something that's definitely changed I
had um your former boss Mark Anderson on
the podcast and we didn't actually talk
about this during the conversation and
he brought it up before we started
recording and I never got to it is he
had this insight that the the
opportunity set for companies now is so
much larger. We used to have no trillion
dollar companies. Now we have we're
going to have dozens of trillion dollar
companies. Just like the size companies
can grow to or is going up so much and
valuations also go up along with that.
And his point is just people haven't
really groed just how large companies
can get now. Like everyone's hitting 100
million AR in like five five months, six
months. Just thoughts on that. Yeah, I
mean this was his whole software is he
eating the world thesis from you know 15
years ago whenever it was yeah you know
the TAM it gets progressively bigger
because you can address larger and
larger parts of the economy and so you
know if you think about the kind of the
classic platform shift framing that you
know mainframes are I think peak
mainframe install base was something
like 70 80,000 units I mean slightly
fuzzy term what exactly is a main frame
and what's the difference at what point
does it become two main frames as one
but something like that that order of
magnitude and then when the internet
kicks off there are as I said 50 to 100
million PCs on earth maybe today there
are something over a billion one to one
and a half billion but obviously a lot
of those are corporate it's like 7 800
million consumer PCs in the world
there's about 5 and a half six billion
mobile smartphones in the world
which is and which is why you can have
900 million weekly IT users on JTP
>> and so there was this narrative like
five years ago like well we've run out
of people so like this the next thing
can't be in order of magnitude bigger
um which was true up to a point but that
was like the wrong model because clearly
what's happening now is you're moving in
another direction is you're just you
know branching out and automating big
big new ways of the economy. Um [snorts]
now the you know the back to your job
point you know you could argue well
we're just going to replace all the
people with AI and like all the money
will go to to to Sam Waltman and you
know Mark Mark can buy himself another
Gulf Stream. I think the add to the
fleet. I think the kind of the the other
answer is you know it's back to the lump
of labor fallacy and you know the last
200 years that you know each of these
technologies removes a bunch of jobs,
creates a bunch of new jobs, creates a
bunch of new value, unlocks prosperity
for all of us and that's painful as you
go through it but it always creates more
value. And so here you could you could
certainly make an analog to you know the
useful analog to the electricity
industry is just saying how that
electricity became part of absolutely
everything and [snorts] software has
been kind of slowly working its way out.
You know the anal here would be
electricity in factories and then
electricity sort of slowly spreads out
and so that would be the point again
that you know it slowly spreads out to
do more and more things um and so you
know more and more value and a bigger
bigger and bigger um contribution to the
economy. Um it also of course disappear
disappears inside things and you know
the other side this is the point of my
capital section in the presentation is
um you know there's this quote from Sam
Alman where he said you know we're going
to be selling electricity we're going to
be selling AI AI intelligence on a meter
like water or electricity and you look
at this and think you know my dear sweet
child you need me to explain the margin
structure of the utility industry to you
um [snorts]
because guess what when you watch
television the TV company isn't paying a
percentage of your monthly bill to the
electricity company, you know, when you
wash your clothes, Bosch isn't paying a
percentage of the price of the washing
machine. Um, [snorts] and you know,
clearly this is like the much more kind
of specific tactical question at the
moment is
do we even end up with three giant
models or does be does it become
hundreds of models and open models and
local models and so on. And even if we
do end up with, you know, say, pick a
number, three to six to 10 giant
foundation models that cost hundreds of
billions of dollars a year. Um, fine. Do
they get all the value from that? Now, I
started my career as a telecoms analyst
and so, you know, still pay attention to
it a bit. Global mobile industry has
revenue of about a trillion dollars a
year, maybe a bit more now. And it
spends about $200 billion a year on
capex every year. Total telecoms is
about 300. Mobile is about 200. It's
about 15 to 20% of revenue every year.
And if you look at a chart of mobile
data consumption, it's an exponential
curve like perfect curve going straight
up. And then the number now I think it's
about, you know, 1500 to 2,000 times
what it was in 2010 globally.
And the stocks have gone nowhere in 25
years
because it's an Xgrowth low margin
commodity utility
where they're selling this inc this
objectively amazing piece of global
technology infrastructure that has
enormous complexity and enormous
sophistication, but all the cool stuff
is made by you. It's made by the people
listening to this podcast. It's made by
somebody else. This was that like kind
of pivotal moment where the Telos
thought that they would do all the stuff
that you did on your iPhone.
And not only do they not do it, but
Apple doesn't do it either. It's all
further up the stack. Um, and so this
is, you know, the kind of the elemental
question right now around Foundation
models is does the model do the whole
thing? Can you do you just go to the
chatboard and get the chatbot to do the
whole thing? Can the model companies
keep building these like clawed for X,
clawed for Y things, which to me look
very much like what you see if you hit
file new in Excel? It's like the
tablets, but like all of those are
actually billion-dollar companies as
well.
And if not, no. Does it all have to be
apps? Quote unquote, whatever app means.
And if it all has to be apps, who builds
those? Well, they can't all get built by
the model labs, just as they didn't all
get built by Microsoft. And so, if
they're all built by other companies,
does the models foundation models have
leverage up the stack the way Windows
did? Or is this more like AWS where like
if you're I don't know an engineering
company or a law firm buying a piece of
software, you don't care which cloud it
runs on and you don't have to like
standardize on AWS because that's where
all the software is and like the
developers all standardize on AWS
because all the customers use AWS.
That's not how it works. That's how
Windows OS works, but that's not how how
works. And so it does sort of seem to me
that like if if the chatbot isn't the UX
and it needs to be apps and the model
companies aren't going to build that and
the models themselves are basically
commodities as at least as you can see
them as users
then why would the model companies have
pricing power
and wouldn't all the value be further up
the stack? Aren't you basically have you
got like three to six companies selling
a commodity at marginal cost? Now
obviously the semi- analyst guys are
like no no no no there's going to be
infinite pricing power forever. I'm
sorry I'm exaggerating, but like I think
you have to really important to kind of
draw a distinction between where are we
now where you have radical price
equilibrium and you know you've got
these you know what's the guy the open
claw guy spent $1.5 million on tokens
last last month. Um [snorts]
but that's like somebody getting like a
50 grand mobile data bill in 2010.
Um that's temporary. What is the steady
state equilibrium point where all of
these lines the lines on the chart kind
of get lined up and we don't have this
kind of weird crazy stuff going on and
then will you have pricing power or have
you got like three or four or five
companies kind of all selling the same
thing
and so then you should have a pricing
price you should have lower pricing and
lower margins and the value got stack I
am so excited to tell you about this
season's supporting sponsor Vanta. Vanta
helps over 15,000 companies like Cursor,
Ramp, Dualingo, Snowflake, and Atlassian
earn and prove trust with their
customers. Teams are building and
shipping products faster than ever
thanks to AI. But as a result, the
amount of risk being introduced into
your product and your business is higher
than it's ever been. Every security
leader that I talk to is feeling the
increasing weight of protecting their
organization, their business, and not to
mention their customer data. Because
things are moving so fast, they are
constantly reacting, having to guess at
priorities, and having to make do with
outdated solutions. Vanta automates
compliance and risk management with over
35 security and privacy frameworks,
including SOCK 2, ISO 27,0001, and
HIPPA. This helps companies get
compliant fast and stay compliant. More
than ever before, Trust has the power to
make or break your business. Learn more
at vanta.com/lenny.
And as a listener of this podcast, you
get $1,000 off Vanta. That's
vanta.com/lenny.
A really interesting takeaway here is
that your sense is over time the
foundational model companies, Anthropic,
OpenAI, others will their margins will
get squeezed. They will not be as
successful as they are today. And the
bigger opportunity is in the application
layer, the people building on the
models, the rappers.
>> Yeah. I mean, this is a very sort of
deterministic
thesis which is the models companies
crucially what I said is the models
don't seem to have network effects. So
there doesn't seem to be a winner takes
all effect where one of these will run
away ahead of the others. So you should
have competition indefinitely. You have
competition indefinitely. You don't have
you don't have different primary like
really radical differentiation in what
the product is.
then why would you have pricing power
and meanwhile if the if you need to have
thousands of applications that are all
different built by different people
those can't all be built by the model
people
so it should end up looking more like
cloud than it looks like Windows
now that may be completely wrong and you
know one of the points I make in the
presentation is like imagine having this
conversation about the internet in 1997
like what would you have got right and
or indeed having it about mobile in 2000
you
you would not most of you would have
missed almost all of it. You certainly
would have said that like a has been PC
company from Cryptoino would win the
whole thing and no one would have said
that. Um and a search company with like
a weird logo like search what's that got
to do with mobile like no forget it
you're an idiot. So like we should
presume we don't know but they're all
you know the sort of basic building
blocks of like well but why would they
have pricing power? Um, I don't know. I
had a when I was a baby analyst in like
99 went to see a.com company in the UK
that was trying to do online selling
computer cards components online like
and [snorts]
um like they had this whole model and
this whole story in the brand and like
the whole thing and we went up to see
them and we're on the train back from
Birmingham and this sort of sort of
senior banker called David Tate um we're
all sitting talking about it and Taty
says it's a low margin reseller one time
sales
you can say.com com all you like. It's a
low margin reseller with and I think
that's the kind of the crux of this is
they're they're undifferentiated
commodity infrastructure providers.
There's a lot of science to it but
there's a lot of science in mobile. I
mean what do you play for flat panel
screen? Like there there's Nobel prizes
in flat panel screens. They're still a
low margin commodity. I look forward to
be proving wrong proven wrong but like
hey that's that's what it looks like
now. This is great. So I know I know
you're not an investor. I know you
didn't actually do investing at A6Z even
though you work for A6Z partner.
>> Partner [laughter] just sit around and
pontificate partner. Would you are there
companies you would invest in? Like if
there are a couple companies you'd
invest in now is there some on that list
or categories even?
>> You know I I I mentioned briefly that I
was an analyst. I was a I was a sellside
equity analyst. I was not a very good
sellside equity analyst but partly
because I was not interested in talking
to clients. Partly because I was not
interested in share prices which would
seem to be like a disqualification to be
an equity analyst. [snorts] Um, and you
know, I don't, you know, there's there's
there's like a huge difference between
being right and being early, and there's
a huge difference between the right
company and the right price. Now, you
know, deterministically, you can look
across the market and say, well, you
know, it's like, you know, the bell
curve IQ meme and, you know, the guy
with 50 and the guy with 200 are both
saying, Jeff Bezel, smart guy, I buy
stock.
And you know you can certainly like
overthink all of this and you know you
can look at you know Google, Apple,
Facebook, Amazon and say it's hard to
see a problem for them really with all
of this. You you can certainly see
questions for all of them um and one of
them may drop the ball but it's worth
you know kind of remembering what
happened in mobile.
You know the internet was this like a
big obvious platform shift. The funny
thing about mobile is that some
companies missed it completely. And for
some of them, it really didn't change
anything. Like for for Google, it didn't
change anything. For Meta, this was
great. Like this is a way better way to
do social than on PC because like you've
got a camera and notifications and it's
on your phone all the time with you.
[snorts] Um Amazon, like what does this
change? Like doesn't change everything.
I mean I'm I'm I'm massively
oversimplifying here, but the point is
now meanwhile Yahoo mail fails to make
the jump. There are companies that were
already kind of dying that failed to
make the jump. maybe eBay, you could
kind you can argue about individual
names. The point is that like we went
through that shift and it didn't change
anything for half the industry um half
the internet industry. And so I think
you know that you could kind of propose
a little bit of that here. Um it's what
what Stephen Silowski at A6Z used to run
Windows would always say is you know
incumbents always try and make the new
thing feature and and sometimes they're
right sometimes it's a feature. Actually
along those lines something I wanted to
get your take on. There's this thread
that's been happening across a bunch of
guests which is around distribution
becoming a bigger and bigger moat
because as software is easier to build,
everyone's launching products. Uh,
everyone's trying to compete for
attention. It's getting harder and hard.
It's always been hard to get people's
attention, but it's just like the noise
in the market is just going up like
crazy. And to me, that tells me
distribution is becoming a more and more
uh valuable uh skill and asset. And it
also tells me incumbents are going to be
a lot more successful because they
already have distribution versus a
startup that's trying to break through.
>> Yeah. I mean, there's like a version of,
you know, the Drake meme of like he
says, "I don't like that. I do like
this." It's like,
>> you know, I don't like seeing GPT2
rappers. I do like harnesses.
[laughter]
>> So, yeah, I I did I did spend some time
talking about this in the presentation I
did at the end of last year that if the
product is a commodity, then the
distribution is what matters. And you
know I wrote a thing about about sat
earlier this year open earlier this year
like how do they compete? Well if
[snorts]
there's an obvious comparison here a lot
of people made is with web browsers
the fundamentally web browser and you
there's a distinction here I think
between the web browser as product and
the web browser rendering engine the
rendering engine can be better or worse
but the browser product is just like a
really thin wrapper for a rendering
engine. Like there's an input box and an
output box and like what else? And which
is like what's the last innovation in
browser design like tab browsing which
is 20 years ago 25 years ago because
it's like and every now and then
somebody tries to innovate in browser
design and it never works because like
you found the platonic ideal. It's like
trying to innovate in smartphone design
like you know it's a it's a glass
rectangle like there's nothing you can
do there. And so what happened of course
is that Microsoft uses distribution to
break their to break in. Um then of
course what also happens is setting
aside the lawsuit is that it turns out
that winning browsers doesn't matter
anyway because the value is further
upstack and so Microsoft wins browsers
for like five six years and it doesn't
matter it doesn't get them anything. Um
and so clearly what's happening now is
that Google is using distribution to
drive um to drive Gemini and like what's
the difference between Gemini and for
and and and like if you're you know if
you're using this stuff all day then you
know but like normal person there's no
difference and the same thing with meta
like you look at survey data on which
which people use even before like the
new news thing like the llama thing like
meta was like behind it was up there
between chat GPT and Gemini which if
you're in tech you people have
completely written it off But it was
like they'd sprayed it on every service
surface and it wasn't that bad. It was
fine. So distribution of an adequate
product when the field is basically
commodity distribution on brand become a
big deal. You can see that in you could
see that in like the strategy open AI
strategy late last year was you know
people called it you know everything
yesterday. Um, and so they were just
kind of trying everything to kind of
work out how they would get that like
how can we get a flywheel? How can we
get distribution? How can we get
something that sticks? How can we get
people something something that people
uses before Google and Meta and Amazon
spray it everywhere and get everybody
using that one? And then you've got like
this inertia and the power of the
default and like why would you switch?
Obviously met Apple is kind of the last
penny to drop here. Um, there was this
sort of slightly weird opening ideal and
now there's even weirder story that
open. I want to sue Apple.
Good luck with that. Um, the funny thing
about the Apple deal thing is just not
to go off on a tangent, but like if you
go back and watch the WWGC from 2024,
like the whole second half of it is
Apple intelligence. That was like the
most compelling vision of a personal AI
assistant. I've still still the most
compelling vision I've seen. They then
couldn't ship it, but then neither was
anybody else. and you watch it again and
you're like, "Okay, so you want tool
using a gentic ondevice AI with no
prompt injection and no hallucinations
and a [clears throat] completely
standardized API system across 10,000
apps with intents that all work
perfectly and like like well that sounds
good to me, but like I'm not surprised
they couldn't ship it, but nobody nobody
else has shipped that." But like that
vision was great. You know, I really
want to see what happens at WWGC in a
month. Like do they actually ship that
now powered by Gemini? But that's also
another point is like okay there's going
to be the the AI intelligence whatever
we call it Gemini intelligence on
Android and then there's going to be
Apple intelligence on iOS which is
powered by Gemini but it's not going to
be the same set of products the model is
just like the dumb thing underneath the
funny way of putting it the dumb thing
underneath that powers the feature the
model is the commodity that powers
different decisions about what the
feature should be and what different
distribution and in that situation of
course um Apple's got like a billion
devices that can run this on edge and
and Google has wonderful marketing
slogan coming soon to our most powerful
devices
meaning it won't work on most Androids.
So again distribution questions
interesting Google IO's next week so
we'll see what they launched.
>> Oh no they launch they launched they
launched a um Android just shows how how
like how
>> was it today? Yeah.
>> Well no they launched it last week. I
mean which is it's like it just
illustrates how much we we stopped
paying attention to Android and an
iPhone. Like Google did had a whole big
thing last week. They've got they're
replacing Chromebooks with Google books
and [snorts] they've got a new Android
intelligence powered by Gemini that will
roll out to like the five people who
bought a Pixel phone.
You don't work for Google.
>> Yeah. Um I want to go in a slightly
different direction. Something that I'm
curious if you're following is just the
anti- AI sentiment that is feels like is
growing. Feels like if you've seen these
surveys, AI is like less popular than
ICE. People are trying to stop data
centers from being built. I think Eric
Schmidt just did a commencement speech
and people were booing him every time he
mentioned AI. Just like where do you
think what do you think is going on?
Where do you think this this goes over
time?
>> It's interesting and it's a big sort of
fuzzy mess of different stuff. I think
there is like tangible like my
electricity bill went up which applies
actually in a very small number of
places objectively but it did and this
is a question the water thing is weird
because it's just like completely fake
um and I should qualif explain what I
mean here um data centers use water for
cooling it's mostly closed loop but the
number of data centers relative to the
total amount of water use in the USA is
tiny I actually went and dug into this
at the Livermore lab did did a study at
the end of 2024 where they estimated US
data center water consumption and it
came out at about 0.017%
of US water consumption.
Now obviously if you live in a small
town and you've got one well and like
they capped the well and gave all the
water to the data center then you're
really pissed off but like that's like
that's a planning problem. That's not a
data center problem. You know in
generality yes this is you know data
centers are what like 5% of US energy
and might grow at 1% a year for the next
five years one percentage point a year
but the water stuff is just nonsense and
then you get into more tangible like
well what is happening with this is it
taking jobs away where you can watch a
bunch of three-hour podcasts of econom e
economists talking to talking to each
other and main answer is we really don't
know yet. There's a bunch of charts that
kind of say yes and a bunch of charts
that kind of say no. And
clearly there's a slowdown in employment
of you know 18 to 24 year olds but that
seems to be the same for people who do
and don't have degrees and the same for
people in fields that are look exposed
to AI and fields that don't look exposed
to AI. So there's a lot of like
econometric argument about this and and
I mean there's there's a broad border
point here. In fact, which is different
point here that like we have very little
data on what's going on in AI from
anyone. The model labs don't tell us
anything like they don't give us any
meaningful usage information. They give
us these weird studies of like people
how many people used this for this and
that. They don't give us a daily active
use number. We do not have a daily
active user number for a forhat.
This [snorts] is crazy. Um, and all the
data comes from academic economists
trying to back stuff out of BLS surveys
or consultancies and and and marketing
agencies like spending a whole bunch of
money to survey 20,000 people and
saying, "What are you doing with this
stuff?" Like we don't have like good
data on what's going on and how many
people are really using this. But but
but to the employment question, hence
like there's a lot of people like
looking through all the stuff that the
US census collects and trying to work
out well where can we see this? Can we
see productivity? Like what could we
see? And the answer right now I think is
like there's no clear consensus that
we're seeing an impact on jobs. But of
course politically that doesn't matter
like if you're a student and you can't
get a job and that clearly is an issue
whether it's because of AI or whether
it's because of Trump and terrorists is
a different question. Um then you get
like like kind of niche things like you
know people who draw book covers for um
young adult romance novels are very
upset that now you can get a picture of
a naked woman on back of a dragon flying
through over a volcano um without paying
them. So there's there's I'm sorry I'm
being deliberately unkind, but there's a
little you there's there's and you know
people particularly like novelists,
people who write ebooks, uh there's a
huge culture war over whether it's okay
to use AI. There's this whole sort of AI
slop question and you know you saw the
number that like 30 40% of new podcasts
generated by AI. So there's a lot of
there's a big fuzzy mass of questions.
Some of this I think is is a little bit
like the backlash we had around social
but much more compressed
and like social some of the backlash
around social was true and some of it
was sort of true and some of it wasn't
you know always like exemplified in the
whole like Facebook sells your data
thing which is just a not true and b the
people who believe it are absolutely
adamant that of course it's true and
you're you're obviously a lunatic for
suggesting otherwise. You know, it's
like the line from from Jonathan Swift
that you can't reason somebody out of an
idea they won't reasonably do. Um, so
you get this kind of wide it was a long
way to answer your question, but you got
this kind of wide kind of spread of
ideas just as you kind of did with
social. There's like 20 different
things. Some of which are really real
and some of which are really not real
and a lot of which are kind of a fuzzy
mess in the middle.
All of which means that that meanwhile
you've got Trump saying he wants a new
executive order on on dangerous models
which I actually don't think is is the
thing that drives the backlash. You know
that worrying about missile cyber I
don't feel like that's you know a main
street America conversation
but that's the thing that got Trump
interested in this stuff. Again let me
go kind of in a tangential direction.
Something that I like to ask ask folks
that have kids that come on the podcast
especially people that are thinking so
deeply about where things are going.
Knowing what you know about just where
the world is heading, what AI is going
to do to the future? How are you
changing the way you raise your kids,
just what are you teaching them
differently potentially that might help
them in the future?
>> I don't know. I think there's a curve
here in that if you've got kids who are
going onto the job market in the next
year or two, then everything is up in
the air and no one knows how knows how
this is going to work. If you've got
kids who are going onto the job market
in like five years,
then who knows? Um, but stuff will have
settled down a lot by then in probably
unpredictable ways. So, I could be a lot
more worried if I had a 21-year-old. You
know, I don't. I've got, you know, kid
in his sort of early teens. So, it's a
diff those those questions vary. Then
you've got a lot of the questions that
were the same before chat TV around you
know the collapse of gatekeepers the you
know
should you really believe what that
influencer on Tik Tok says and you know
where exactly you getting your
understanding of what's going on in
Israel and all of those kinds of social
mediary internety media consumption
kinds of questions. Um
I don't know there are people who are
like super super intentional about you
know every minute of their child's life.
Um I'm not I'm kind of recall you know
the George Carlin line you know that
anyone who drives faster than you is a
maniac and any anyone who drives slower
is an idiot and that certainly applies
to parenting. [snorts] Um, so I'm, you
know, like everybody thinks they're
somewhere in the middle, but, you know,
I don't have, you know, a deeply
systematic and widespread and coherent
like plan for this is what my child is
going to be doing in 3, 6, 12, 18 months
time. Um, I' I'd settle for him not
breaking his Chromebook again.
>> I like that your just general vibe is
it's going to be okay, guys. It's going
to be okay.
>> Yeah. Uh, I don't know if you I think if
you you know, maybe this is cuz I'm
British and we haven't had political
violence in 500 years. And um I think,
you know, if I came from Iran, I'd have
a different attitude to to being calm
about the future. Um I think there's a
layer of like yes, this will change a
bunch of stuff and we'll need to worry
about it, but that's kind of a constant.
We've always had that. I remember in the
whole wave of um the panic around social
media, I dug up there were a whole bunch
of books in the late '7s about
databases. There was a whole panic about
databases and again half of it was true.
Like um you know if everybody's like
police records and arrest or if all
police records and all government
records are online then [snorts] that's
different. If you think about, for
example, the deep needs, deep fake needs
issue, for example, there's like a dumb
reaction to this, which is to say, um,
haven't you heard of Photoshop?
Which is true,
but a 15-year-old kid couldn't use
Photoshop to make hardcore pornographic
nudes of every girl in their high school
and send them to the whole school in one
afternoon
>> and turn them into video.
>> Exactly. Even Well, yeah, even more. And
now they can. So, like that is
different. It's kind of like, you know,
the challenge of social. You know, the
thing people would say in the '9s is
it's great. You can be, you know, the
only gay kid in your village and you can
find other gay people and you can find
your tribe. And guess what? It turned
out you could also be the only Nazi in
your village or the only pedophile in
your village or the somebody who wanted
to look at child porn. And like, yeah,
now you can find the other people who
like looking at child porn and they'll
tell you it's great. So, oops. Um, we
connected everybody and unfortunately
that meant we connected all the bad
people and all of our own worst
instincts and every problem in society.
And so that will happen again with AI.
You know, we can deep fake news are like
the obvious thing we can see now. There
will be a whole bunch more of this
stuff. Um, but there's also and you know
something of kind of technical audience
should know about. Have you do you know
about the post office scandal in the UK?
Nope. Okay. So sidebar here. So in the
UK post offices are mostly franchises
run by small business people. So they're
run by like pharmacies classically. Tip
very often Indian immigrants second
generation Indian people. [snorts] Um,
and the post office like 15 years ago
rolled out a new point of sale computer
system. So they have a separate counter
in the back. That's the post office. And
so the post office rolled out this new
computer system built by them by Fujitsu
that had a bunch of bugs in it that
showed short halls in cash. And the post
office looks at this and says, "Aha, we
knew these people were stealing from
us." Hundreds of people get prison.
Bunch of suicides, bunch of
bankruptcies, people lose their homes.
Meanwhile, people from the post office
and people from Fujitsu are going to
court and swearing there's no bugs in
the system and nobody else has had this
problem. This is 1970s technology.
And that's really the point that every
wave of technology comes with ways that
you can ruin people's lives either
deliberately or by accident. This is the
whole thing of Chinese mass surveillance
is deliberate. This is maybe people
should go to prison, maybe not. But like
we have this with every technology. we
have a bunch of ways that you can ruin
people's lives and you have to be
conscious of that and also kind of not
panic about it.
>> So maybe following that thread and
coming back to the kids thing and the
jobs thing. Are there is there like a
job you are steering your kid away from
and is there a job you kind of think you
want to steer them towards?
>> I don't know about that since it's
probably a little bit early yet. He's
not quite at the like I want to be a
fireman stage. Um but
>> that might be a great job.
>> Yeah. And certainly you know if I look
at my career you know I started as an
equity analyst and then I went and
worked in industry and then I was a
consultant like you know the days when
you kind of knew what your career would
was going to be or over you know there
were clearly some people where you want
to be an architect you want to be a
software engineer you know you want to
be X or Y I don't know I think you know
the only the only kind of thinking I
have here is that you have like you
slowly work out there's a bunch of
skills that you have and there's a bunch
of like jobs that make that makes you
good at and then there's a bunch of
stuff that people will pay you for and
you want to get at least two of those
and preferably all three.
>> Okay. So, zooming out a little bit, let
me ask you a a meta question. What's a
question about AI that you think
nobody's asking yet or not enough people
are asking that we should be asking
ourselves?
>> Sure. I mean, we talked about like value
capture like obviously this is a whole
everyone is is is asking like you know
I'm not sure how many people are asking
whether model labs have pricing power. I
think a lot of people are just presuming
that the situation today will continue
or that of course they will. So I think
that's maybe a question that that not
enough people ask. I think the question
I posed towards the end of my
presentation which we talked about
earlier is like what's the task and
what's job? What is just the thing that
becomes a button or make scoo versus
what are people actually hiring you for
is a kind of a useful way of thinking
about this. And clearly there are going
to be some jobs where no that is just a
task and that job gets automated away.
But there's a bunch where that kind of
isn't the question. The way I actually
pulled that together at the end of the
deck was a chart of global recorded
music revenue, which as you may know is
kind of a U-shaped curve, more or less.
So, it's dropped by about half from 2000
to 2015 or so, and since then has come
back about to about 75% of the peak
[snorts] um adjusted for inflation. And
the way that I look at this is to say,
and that's driven by streaming. And I
kind of looked at this and said, well,
the first half of this chart is saying,
what happens if I don't have to pay $15
to get [snorts] a CD to get that track?
And the second half of the chart is
saying, what happens if $15 a month
gives you all the music that there is?
So, it's kind of a completely different
sort of question. And you could, you
know, that's the way that you could look
at Uber or the way you could look at at
at Airbnb, all these kinds of companies.
is that to begin with you do the old
thing but more
with every new technology you do the old
thing but more of it on the new place.
So, you know, you put flicker on mobile,
you print out your emails, and then you
make new things that are only possible
with a new thing. And then maybe you go
a bit further and you kind of completely
redefine the question and you make
something that isn't that at all. You
know, Spotify is not an online music
store. It's something else.
And right now, you know, those
questions, you only even know what the
question is after it's been asked and
you built a billion dollar thing that
lots of people use because like
obviously Spotify look crazy and look
crazy and Airbnb look crazy. But that's
a sort of I think the the way to get at
what this means is you have to get past
we do the old stuff but more and you
have to get to what do you do that's
different that's because of this what
does this change what wasn't possible
before what gets unlocked as opposed to
just doing the old thing but more of it.
>> Yeah. just to support this kind of
general theme you have of it's like we
don't know what is going to happen like
this is unprecedented if you if you were
to zoom out like a few years ago maybe
three years ago four years ago the last
profession you think would be automated
is engineering and coding it's like that
feels like the hardest thing that's like
we're going to need people to build
these things now it's like the most
transformed role of any role like you
went from writing all your code to 0% of
your code is AI it's almost like you
didn't realize you didn't realize it was
boring manual labor that could be
automated. You thought it was something
else. It's funny. I mean, I I was
looking at this this whole there's a
sort of US government called own data
set called Onet or something like that
which tries to kind of analyze every
single job and then people try and kind
of score it and they try and say, well,
you know, this profession is X or Y%
exposed to AI and AI can do Z% of it
today. I think this is just the most
ridiculous bunch of deluded horseshit.
And there's two reasons for this. The
first reason is that this is like
ironically this is the logical systems
problem. The expert systems problem. The
problem of expert systems is like for
anyone who doesn't know like you try to
recognize a picture of a cat and say you
start building up logical steps. So you
make an edge detector and then you make
a third detector and you make an eye
detector and you make an ear detector
and 15 years later you've got 700 steps
and it doesn't work. Um, and this is
what happens when you try and look at a
profession and sort of break it down by
which bits can be automated and which
can't. You can't describe a profession
like that or at anyway we can't. You
can't kind of look at a senior partner
at a law firm and say, well, 17% of
their work could be automated like this
is horshit. You can't do that. [snorts]
Um, I think the other side of the
fallacy though is to talk about taxi
drivers.
>> [snorts]
>> So um you know if we've been having this
conversation in 1997 it's like the Uber
test. Imagine we were in 1997 what will
be crushed by the internet? Well
newspapers will be fine. They'll just
because they'll save money on the
printing bills. This is like a joke but
people said that newspaper the internet
will be great for newspapers. Their
printing bills will go down. Well yes
but no. But the other side is well
obviously like taxi drivers you couldn't
automate that with the internet. It's
got nothing to do with the internet.
Maybe you'd have internet booking but
like no that's not going to change
anything. And of course, it completely
changes the whole thing. [snorts] And
so, uh, like the the example I saw the
other day was like things that won't be
affected by AI, personal trainers. Okay.
So, I take my iPhone and I balance it on
the metal piece with the camera pointed
at me and I ask an AI to build me a
training routine and watch me and tell
me if I'm doing it right. Why do I need
a personal trainer? Now, that might be
complete bonsense. Um, but that's how
these things work. Like the stuff that
you don't think is ex you can't predict
which things are going to be exposed
necessarily or you know a lot of the big
companies are things that didn't look
like that would work and didn't like
look like that was exposed. The other
side of this of course is this is one of
the charts at the end of my presentation
is comparing Uber and Airbnb because
this is like the cliche from Mark Andre
that like Uber doesn't sell software to
taxi companies, Airbnb doesn't sell
software to hotels. Okay, now let's go
and look at the market impact. Well, a
whole bunch of cities where Uber
demolished taxi business and made it
much bigger as well [snorts] made the
town became much bigger and everyone
switched. Airbnbs impact hotel hotels if
you actually go and look at the numbers
is pretty marginal. They carved out this
whole other business and maybe they
slowed down the growth of hotels bit.
But you know my wife flies to Milwaukee
next week. She's going to land at 8:00
at night. She wants to go to a hotel.
She wants to have room service. She
needs a bathroom bath. She needs, you
know, needs a gym at 6:00 in the morning
and then she's get 7 in the morning,
she's going to drive to the client site.
She's not going to stay in an Airbnb.
Like absolutely zero chance she's going
to stay in an Airbnb. And [snorts] half
of the hotel business is travel is
business travel. And you know, you can
as soon as you actually get into
anything, then it gets complicated. I
remember somebody on social media said
the problem with Benedict is everything
his answer to everything is it depends.
It's like yeah,
it does. It depends.
So there were, you know, it's back to my
1997 point. You can say some of this.
Um, but you have to have that humility.
>> Yeah. I'm coming back to this uh phrase
you use, presume radical uncertainty is
a nice uh core thesis here. So knowing
all this just it's hard to tell. We
don't know exactly where it's going. Uh
things are going to change a lot, but
it'll probably be okay broadly. just a
lot of people listening are pretty
worried about their jobs and their
careers and how much the world changes.
What would be a couple things you
recommend people do knowing what you
know to be more successful in this
future?
>> Well, I I should just kind of wind back
on what you just said is like as Kees
tells us in the long run we're all dead.
So, you know, it's all you know like on
average um you know on average nobody
died in World War I. Great. But if you
know if you're if you're a 19 year old
in 1914 you you got a you know one in
three chance of not coming back. So um
yes you know clearly there's a bunch of
professions where this is a major
question and particularly if you're an
associate or want would have been
thinking about being an associate this
is a major question and it's very
unclear how those professions are going
to play out. It's very unclear what the
you know happens to the pyramid
structure of professional services. The
answer I the only answer I think one can
have is you know don't stick your head
in the sand and say I hate all of this
stuff because that gives you a great
feeling of moral superiority and you can
go on blue sky and shout at everybody
shout at each other about how evil AI is
like great I'm happy for you but that's
not going to help what helps is you
diving into this completely submerging
yourself in it and coming out
understanding what you can do with it
how this changes things how can you how
you can be a great hire. And that may
still not help, but you know, if you're
going into a law firm and they're like,
well, we hired 100 associates last year
and this year we're only going to hire
50. Going to the interview and say,
well, I think AI is and I'm
never going to use it. Is probably not
the right mood.
So, you know, you can that that that may
not be particularly comforting, but I
don't think there's there's an
alternative is, you know, you have to
dive into this and absorb it and
internalize it and think about what it
means, just as, you know, you and I did
with mobile and with with the internet.
I think that is actually very actionable
and and very consistent advice on the
podcast is just just do stuff. Build it.
Don't just sit around and pontificate
and be be pissed at what's happening. to
uh close us out. I'm going to take us to
AI corner, a recurring corner of the
podcast. Uh and the question to you is
just what's one way you've used AI and
use AI in your work or life that uh is
really interesting, something that other
people might might uh be inspired by.
>> I don't know. I I struggle with this
question because I'm sort of the lawyer
looking at chat GBT.
So, you know, the stuff that I would do
that I would automate are sort of
precise information retrieval tasks,
which is precisely the thing that this
is kind of worst at.
And, you know, that's not a criticism.
It's just an observation. The kind of
the kind of stuff that I would want a
machine to do for me is the stuff that
AI kind of can't do for me very very
well at the moment. I use it for proof
reading. I use it, you know, for images.
I used it redecorating my apartment.
That work fantastically well at that.
Here's a picture of this room. Repaint
it. Add this light and this table and
this rug. Um, no, change the color of
the rug. There's a kind of plants for
stuff where it works. Um, but I mean, a
couple of years ago, somebody said AI is
good at stuff that computers are bad at
and bad at stuff that computers are good
at. And that's
I I I struggle to find many examples of
those where I need it. But then, you
know, I'm a kind of a unique weird job.
you know, I', you know, sit at my desk
all day, you know, trying to synthesize
a whole bunch of other stuff into a
whole bunch of new ideas. That's not
particularly common where people spend
their time. I struggle to find AI use
cases. I am the accountant looking at
spreadsheet and thinking, well, that's
very clever and this is clearly going to
completely transform everything. But I
actually don't make spreadsheets every
day. I went to a standup comedy show uh
of Pete Holmes. I don't know if you know
him and he made this joke that uh we
want AI to do like clean the poop off
the street and do all these like hard
things that nobody wants to do but
instead it's like oh let me help you
write let me help you create imagery
it's like this bohemians like no I don't
want to I don't want to do all these
ugly things I want to be creative make
art
>> yeah well I mean there's there's there's
you know variations of all of this you
know it's like I don't want the AI to do
the stuff I do for fun I want to do the
stuff that the boring stuff that I don't
do for fun
>> um and you know finding that mesh I mean
you joking apart. This is going to come
back to kind of my chat boy chatbot
point that you know the chatbot is a
blank screen in a jagged edge like what
am I supposed to do and what will work
and that's a big problem and the
solution to that problem is to wrap it
in in use cases. Part of it is also like
AI just disappears. So most of what I
write now I dictate. I dictate as a
voice memo and that's automatically
transcribed. Is that still AI or is that
just voice recognition? It's probably an
LLM. There's probably an LLM in there.
Okay. So maybe that's AI. Well, okay.
So, so what um at a certain point it's
just automation.
>> What do you use for that for voice voice
transcription?
>> So I actually find Apple notes the app
or the one built into the iPhone works
fine. I mean I'm conscious of the people
want others but like I mean I dictate
it. There it is. It worked. So I'm I'm
happy with that.
>> All right, final question before we get
to our very exciting lightning round. Is
there anything else that you wanted to
share? Anything else you want to leave
listeners with?
>> No, I think you know I've I've I've
monologued plenty and I've gone through
a bunch of stuff in the deck. Go read
the deck and um sign up to my newsletter
and then you will get many more mags of
brilliant Benedict Evans wisdom. Um some
of which may even be useful. Somebody un
someone unsubscribed from my newsletter
and they said you didn't you didn't give
me any actionable stock ideas and I'm
like well on one level that's completely
true. On the other level maybe not.
>> Well with that Benedict we've reached
our very exciting lightning round. I've
got five questions for you. Are you
ready?
>> Sure. First question, what are two or
three books that you find yourself
recommending most to other people? It's
a tough one for me because I just read
an enormous amount of books and then I
can't remember which ones I've read. Um
I I I I sometimes often joke that
there's a there's a classic British
comedy from the late 19th century called
Three Men in a Boat, which is like my
itching. It's like we're having trouble
hanging a picture. Well, there's a
section about that. You know, we're
having trouble doing this. Oh, well,
there's a story about that. All of which
are hilarious. Um so [snorts] three men
in a boat is my iting. There's a book by
I think William Cronin about the
economic history of Chicago which is
fascinating and actually very relevant
to technology because it's talking
basically about standardization and
packetization and logistics and channel
conflict and network dynamics and um
network neutrality. So like when the
meat packers of Chicago um reach the
point that it's cheaper to ship a cow
from New York to Chicago, kill it, pack
it and then ship it back to New York
than to kill it in New York. and you
know the pricing of refrigerator cars
and it's exactly like reading about
broadband. It's all the same kind of
those kind of business issues which is
fascinating. What else have I read? I
don't know. Read books. Read different
books generally. Read books for
grown-ups.
Please read something other than Lord of
the Rings. If you're going to name
another company like I saw this and what
was the latest like Peter Teal company?
I was like read another book. [laughter]
Everything is named after a character
from this one book. There's more than
one book in the world. If there is more
than one book, then all about science
fiction. Read read about different
things. Read about things you don't know
about.
>> Kind of along those lines. You have a
favorite recent movie or TV show that
you've really enjoyed?
>> I don't know. I've dropped so badly off
the the the current media treadmill and
I just spend most of my time watching
classics which are like always the ones
that you're supposed to have seen and
that all seem intimidating and then you
watch them and you're like, "Oh, that
was actually really good."
Um, I watched The Seventh Seal recently,
which is like one of those joke Woody
Allen terrifying, boring movies, and it
was brilliant. It was really
interesting, and it's like it's only
like an hour. So, go watch one of those
movies that you are supposed to have
seen or hadn't seen.
>> Favorite recent product that you've
recently discovered that uh you really
love. Could be a gadget, could be an
app.
>> I was speaking at a partner meeting for
a company earlier this this week. What's
today? Monday. No, last week. and um met
the founder of the company who has a
very famous the CEO of the company has a
very famous name and admired his shoes
and didn't say anything but then went in
Google like half an hour later yeah okay
I'll buy a pair of those you want to
share the brand or you want to keep it
keep it secret okay we'll keep it secret
I don't know I think one comes one comes
in waves of new products and you know
you get into waves of new things and um
like when's the last time there was a
cool app like iPhone apps that was you
know all that white space went I mean
it's partly a function of product ships
a platform ships like all the white
space went for for cool new apps and now
we haven't quite got actually this is a
to the earlier point we don't have
breakout a consumer AI apps yet because
I think because of marginal cost more
than anything else so you can't make it
free and get 50 million users and then
have a revenue bottle um but we don't
have those breakout things yet
>> for consumer yeah
>> for consumer no I just weird I keep
getting these ads for voice recorders
like somebody's selling like a business
card size like hardware voice recorder
I'm like
But like I didn't get it. Like I've got
a voice recorder on my phone.
>> Yeah. All kinds of cool stuff coming.
Okay, two more questions. Uh, do you
have a favorite life motto that you find
yourself coming back to often in work or
in life?
>> I suppose I've mentioned earlier
apparently I mostly say it depends. Um,
>> that's going to be the title. [laughter]
>> No, it'll probably be okay.
>> Yeah. Okay. I that's that's the vibe I
get. I like that. I like that it's
probably going to be okay. Not for sure.
Um, okay. Final question. I saw
somewhere that you own a lot of old
phones. Is that true?
>> Uh, it is. Yes. As a um I kept I mean I
was a telecoms analyst and mobile
analyst and I I kept all my phones up to
a point. Now they're kind of
uninteresting. But as you you may
remember like before the iPhone,
particularly outside the USA, there was
this huge creativity and expansion in
what phones look like because everyone
was basically innovating around a little
teeny tiny gray square. So everyone was
trying to differentiate from everything
else. um before it kind of result. It's
kind of like cars actually. It's like
cars before street before like wind
tunnels. Cars all look different and
everyone's trying to innovate around
because you've got the same four wheels
and the same engine and everyone's
trying to like differentiate based on
like the shape and and then everything
converges on one shape and it's kind of
the same with phones like everyone
everything converged on one shape.
Before that there was all this
innovation. So yeah, like I have like
like a whole bunch of PDAs and and
smartphones and
>> how many phones we talking about?
>> I don't know like 20 or 30. Okay. Okay.
It's not so crazy. What's like the
oldest one? What's the oldest one you
got?
>> So, I have one of those I should have
you told me I'd have got the box down. I
have one of those Ericson um Shark fin
flip phones from like 98 or something
which is very again like hardware design
visual design trying to differentiate.
I've got an iMode phone from 2001 and a
Jane phone from 2001 that has a camera.
So, I came back from Japan in 2001 and
my phone had a color screen and a camera
and like I just had like endless client
meetings and people just wanted to see
the phone with a color screen. Like it's
mind-blowing. Didn't work outside Japan.
I plugged it in the other day. It still
charges up. I mean clearly I can't do
anything with it. Um, [snorts] and like
I mean there's there's a little bit of
an analogy in there as well and that
like we thought there'd be all these
different shapes and sizes and before
the iPhone people kind of imagined like
well some people will have like a little
pocket PC and some people have a
keyboard and you have like folding
although all these different ideas for
what it would look like and it we didn't
realize it was all going to converge on
one device.
>> Benedict, this was amazing. I learned a
ton. I feel better after this
conversation. Two final questions. Where
can folks find you online? Where do they
find this presentation? And how can
listeners be useful to you? If you can
Google me, as I always say, my parents
had good SEO. So, Google Benedict Evans.
Um, and so there's a website where
there's I publish all the presentations
that I've done and sign up for my
newsletter which comes out every week.
Otherwise, how can they be useful to me?
Like I'm always trying to understand
stuff and I'm always trying to ask
different questions. The worst thing in
tech is to like carry on talking about
the same stuff. It's like, you know, the
moment you really understand something
is the moment you have to push on to
something else. And so I'm always trying
to think like, no, am I just talking
about the same thing over and over
again? Like last year I just spent
probably too much time saying, "But
these models still hallucinate. Stop
telling me they don't hallucinate."
And they do. They still hallucinate. You
know, you push them, push them a little
bit further, any question, and you'll
still get like, "Nope, that's not true."
[snorts] Um, but that doesn't mean
they're not useful. So you have to kind
of keep pushing keep pushing myself. So
that's always the challenge for me is is
how do I push? Um, and then yes, if you
want me to come and present to your
board in the Caribbean, um, then let me
know.
>> And by the way, the domain is
bend-ans.com if folks want to check you
out. And it's evs.com.
>> Mendic, thank you so much for being
here.
>> Thanks a lot.
>> Bye everyone. Thank you so much for
listening. If you found this valuable,
you can subscribe to the show on Apple
Podcasts, Spotify, or your [music]
favorite podcast app. Also, please
consider giving us a rating or leaving a
review as that [music] really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.